=pod

=head1 NAME

I<flowmon> - network data flow monitor

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<flowmon> [ B<-f> I<filter> [ B<-i> I<iface> ] [ B<-d> I<description> ] ] ...

B<flowmon> I<filter_file> [ I<options> ]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

I<flowmon> is a tool to monitor and report amount of network traffic, with
data streams defined in a similar fashion to L<tcpdump(8)>.

I<flowmon> is intended to be data source for some other program, like ncurses
display, L<rrdtool(1)> writer, or an agent of monitoring system.

=head1 OPTIONS

I<flowmon> expects in command line arguments a list of streams to monitor.
A stream has a packet filter, may be attached to specific network interface,
and may have a description. Order of options is not important, except the rule
that first B<-f> option is combined with first B<-i> and first B<-d>, second
B<-f> option is combined with second B<-i> and B<-d>, and so on.

Supported options are:

=over

=item B<-f> I<filter>

filter definition in L<bpf(4)> syntax

=item B<-i> I<iface>

interface on which B<-f> filter will operate; defaults to C<any>

=item B<-d> I<description>

stream description; defaults to B<-f> filter itself

=back

=head1 FILTER FILE

I<flowmon> supports reading stream definitions from a file. Each stream
definition is a separate line and has three fields: interface name, L<bpf(4)>
filter, and description. Empty lines and lines starting with C<#> character
are ignored.

Interface name is just a sequence of non-space characters, and filter and
description are surrounded with single quote (C<'>) characters.

Example filter file:

  any 'tcp port 22' 'SSH'
  any 'esp'         'IPsec'
  any 'port 53'     'DNS'

=head1 OUTPUT FORMAT

I<flowmon> reports stream statistics to its I<STDOUT>. Statistics are printed
in JSON format, one hash per line. Each defined stream produces one JSON each
second.

Example output (line folded for readability):

  {"stream_id": 0, "stream_name": "SSH", "time": 1234567890,
    "bytes": 288, "packets": 3}

Fields are as follow:

=over

=item C<"stream_id">

position of a stream in the list of all defined streams, starting with C<0>

=item C<"stream_name">

description of a stream (B<-d>)

=item C<"time">

unix timestamp (L<time(2)>) of when data was collected

=item C<"bytes">, C<"packets">

size of data stream that passed through filter since last report

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<bpf(4)>, L<pcap-filter(7)>, L<tcpdump(8)>

=cut
